\*\*Decision Making in an E-Commerce Website Based on past Temporal Data\*\*

\*\*About:\*\* The dataset available to us is accumulated over a period time and is related to sales concerning a nascent e-commerce website. At various points in time, based upon past history questions are being formulated to develop strategies to increase efficiency of the business.

\*\*Relational Data Base:\*\* The database consists of various data tables linked via primary-key and foreign key relationships. website\_sessions, orders, products, website\_pageviews, order\_items, order\_refunds.

\*\*Analysis\*\*: A brief summary of analysis carried out using the dataset and the decisions influenced by it. Various business concepts relating to this business are also discussed.

\*\*Traffic Sources:\*\* Traffic to our website can arise via multiple channels viz. Email, Social Media, Direct Searches, Search Engine Queries. It is important to discern efficient sources and shift our budget in that direction. As the company evolves into a robust business, our direct and organic searches should record bulk of the traffic. The project involved using SQL syntax to retrieve related numbers, trends to evaluate the following metrics and take cogent decisions.

I.  \*\*Session Volume:\*\* High amount of visitors visiting our website is the first priority with regards to a growing business.

II. \*\*Conversion Rate:\*\* Not only is more visits essential, but also how many of them actually materialize into orders. If we have a below threshold conversion rate then we might have to cut down our spending costs related to bids placed on paid traffic. Also other improvements such as ease of access, alluring interface and fast payment gateways should be carried out.

III. \*\*Bidding Paid Campaigns:\*\* For a company to prosper, it is imperative to generate Revenue. This means that the company should have an increasing trend in session volumes and good conversion rates. High bids should be placed on segments which exhibit strength in these metrics and low bids elsewhere. Trade-off involves acquiring more customers and driving more orders on one hand and managing spending on the other.

IV. \*\*User Interface:\*\* Device type might affect user experience while browsing the products catalogue. Device level analysis proves incredibly useful for customizing user experience and managing spending.

V.  \*\*Page Level Analysis:\*\* In a particular website session a user might look through various pageviews related to the company viz. home\_page, products\_page, etc. \*\*Landing pages\*\* and \*\*Bounce rates\*\* are two measures which might identify \*\*pain points\*\* across sessions. Rectifying related issues might help in boosting the overall conversion rates and bring about a larger revenue.

VI. \*\*Conversion Funnels:\*\* From browsing their favourite products to successfully placing an order, a user goes through multiple task specific steps (ex. Home, products, cart, billing, shipping, etc). Analysing most treaded paths, critical drop-off points can help improve overall conversion rates.

VII. \*\*Quantifying Impacts:\*\* Based on strategies devised and implemented in the past and comparing their outcomes is necessary. If our policy indicates superior results then we can proceed, else we might revert back to old strategies.

VIII. \*\*Seasonality and Business Patterns:\*\* Holiday season might be an opportune time to throw sales and give discounts. Concurrently the business management must look into enough supply stock (inventory management), rigorous quality checks, dependable customer support, sufficient staff (manpower) and speedy service during this phase.

IX. \*\*Margin Generated:\*\* Margins are extremely important in any developing business. Margin calculation should not include cost of goods sold but also logistics cost, employee expenditure, erosion due to product refunds. Product based margins give an idea of customer satisfaction with different products.

X.  \*\*Product Level Analysis:\*\* When an outlet sells multiple products, disparities are evident in revenues, margins and profits generated by different products. Product improvements such as changing suppliers, better handling and shipping, product cost, sound testing before dispatch might help to mitigate poor statistics.

XI. \*\*Cross Selling:\*\* One product attracts another. Cross selling products (especially from the same supplier or same warehouse) can give rise to increased profits and better margins. Cross selling can be encouraged by giving extra discounts on frequent groupings.

XII. \*\*Product Refunds:\*\* High Refund rate augurs poorly for any company. Decisions such as changing the supplier, better handling, product testing, interpreting reviews can help reducing the refunds of a particular product.

XIII. \*\*Repeat Users:\*\* Repeat users generally approach the website via direct search or organic search. These traffic sources do not cost the company, moreover such users are more likely to convert to orders and thus generate additional Revenue.

\*\*Outcomes: \*\*

1) The aim of the project is to strengthen the sales performance of the business. Existing flaws and shortcomings are to be interpreted, formulating required SQL queries and observing their output. New strategies are to be designed to combat the problems and to be tested to check their efficacy. SQL queries were used to:
1) Major traffic sources were identified and their conversion rates analysed. Marketing bids were adjusted to limit the expenditure and improvements to existing platforms were tested.
1) Bounce rate was computed for the landing page. An alternative landing page with lower bounce rate was finalised.
1) Click through rate for individual pages in the conversion funnel was computed. Re-structured website pages with better click through rates were deployed.
1) Whether the business is going on the right track: Proportion of session volume generated by direct and organic searches was computed. Over time organic and direct searches contributed to an increase in the session volume, which was a positive sign.
1) Seasonality Trends were analysed, high order volume weeks were identified, now the company will be better equipped in the future.
1) Initially, the company operated with only one product, profitability of the product was substantiated. Subsequrntly, the company ventured into launching another product. This resulted in an increase in the overall clickthrough rate. So, this product was continued on the shelf.
1) More products were added and key metrics like Average Order Value, Revenue per cart session, products per order showed an upward trend indicating cross-selling.
1) Product refunds: The order items table in alliance with the orders refund table gives us information about product refunds. Defective products are corrected, and improvements (lowering) in refund rates is observed. 

Overall, SQL analysis helped in exploring the dataset and answering pertinent business-related questions. The project also helped to reinforce SQL concepts relating to JOINs, CASE, COUNT, SUB-QUERY, DATE functions, multi-step QUERY, WHERE, GROUP BY, ORDER BY. 
